README.md, before:

# argparsh - python argparse for the shell

Ever wanted to parse arguments in bash but felt frustrated by giant case blocks
and unfriendly syntax? Ever tried `getopts` but ended up curled on the floor
sobbing? Have you ever spent sleepless nights hoping that bash argument parsing
could be as simple as python's `argparse`? Maybe `argparsh` is for you.

`argparsh` aims to provide an easy way to construct an argument parsing program
from any shell.

## Usage

```bash
# Create a parser that accepts a string and an optional int value
parser=$({
    # Initialize the parser with the name of the script and a description
    argparsh new $0 -d "Example parser"

    # Add a positional argument - note that args after -- are options to add_arg
    # and not aliases for the argument
    argparsh add_arg strarg -- --help "My string argument"

    # Add a keyword argument that can either be -i <value> or --intarg <value>
    argparsh add_arg -i --intarg -- \
        --help "My int argument" \
        --type int \
        --default 10
})

# Parse the input arguments with the parser above
eval $(argparsh parse $parser "$@")

# Access parsed arguments by name
echo "String argument was" $STRARG
echo "Integer argument was" $INTARG
```

See `example.sh` for a more complete example.

### TODO

+ Support for more output formats (fish, JSON, ...)

## Installation

No dependencies besides python/pip.

```sh
pip install argparsh
```

Or, to build from source:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/aneeshdurg/argparsh.git
cd argparsh
pip install .
```

Commit message:

Add more output format capability and fix a bug in parsing arguments with leading -s

README.md, after:

# argparsh - python argparse for the shell

Ever wanted to parse arguments in bash but felt frustrated by giant case blocks
and unfriendly syntax? Ever tried `getopts` but ended up curled on the floor
sobbing? Have you ever spent sleepless nights hoping that bash argument parsing
could be as simple as python's `argparse`? Maybe `argparsh` is for you.

`argparsh` aims to provide an easy way to construct an argument parsing program
from any shell.

## Usage

```bash
# Create a parser that accepts a string and an optional int value
parser=$({
    # Initialize the parser with the name of the script and a description
    argparsh new $0 -d "Example parser"

    # Add a positional argument - note that args after -- are options to add_arg
    # and not aliases for the argument
    argparsh add_arg strarg -- --help "My string argument"

    # Add a keyword argument that can either be -i <value> or --intarg <value>
    argparsh add_arg -i --intarg -- \
        --help "My int argument" \
        --type int \
        --default 10
})

# Parse the input arguments with the parser above
eval $(argparsh parse $parser -- "$@")

# Access parsed arguments by name
echo "String argument was" $strarg
echo "Integer argument was" $intarg
```

See `example.sh` for a more complete example, and examples of alternate output
formats (e.g. parsing CLI arguments into an associative array)

### TODO

+ Support for more output formats (fish, JSON, ...)

## Installation

No dependencies besides python/pip.

```sh
pip install argparsh
```

Or, to build from source:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/aneeshdurg/argparsh.git
cd argparsh
pip install .
```

## Similar Works

+ [getopts](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/getopts.1p.html)
    - the OG argument handling utility. A bit clunky to use.
+ [argparse.sh](https://github.com/yaacov/argparse-sh)
    - similar approach, but not completely shell agnostic, and lacking in more
      advanced features, like subcommands.
+ [fish argparse](https://fishshell.com/docs/current/cmds/argparse.html)
    - Fish specific, but a nice utility. Not easy to use outside of fish and no
      subcommand support.
